In the previous lesson we created some javascript and added it into our h tim L.
Now you're probably looking at this and saying OK well javascript should be able to do a whole lot more
than this.
And you're correct it can do a lot lot more.
So this is just a simple way to add Javascript.
And usually it's not really a common way to have javascript because for the most part we do try to separate
our javascript out of our aged him out so it's easier to read easier to edit easier to update and so
on.
So you got a few options to Javascript you can add it the script tags.
So these look just like HTL where we've got an opening and closing script and then we've got javascript
in the middle here.
So between the script tags where we open and close this is where all of our content can go.
So we can just as easily take this alert put it in here and for javascript we need to where we don't
need to but it's always a good idea to include those semi-colons.
So I'm going to get rid of that were actually I can just paste it so I can have javascript in a number
of areas within my code.
So I've got my script tag up here and I've got it firing off as the page is going to load so I don't
have any event listener that it's listening for.
So nothing like what is happening here where we're actually listening for the user to take some type
of action.
This script is going to just fire off because the browser reads from top down it's going to hit the
script tags it's going to know that that's part is javascript it's going to see this javascript statement
and it's going to just execute that it.
So let's refresh the page and see what happens.
And there's our hello and maybe we should distinguish all of these Hello's that we're building here.
So unbuild hello to refresh the page again and we see now it's this one that's firing off.
We've got hello and we've got a click OK.
In order to render out the rest of the page.
So that's one way to add Javascript.
And this was a second way that we added within the script tags.
Now a lot of times commonly we usually place script tags at the bottom of the page just before the body
close and there's a number of reasons for doing that.
And mainly because you want all of your each to to load and if you want to access any one of these HDMI
male elements you do need to have them loaded in order to access them via javascript and we are going
to be showing you that as we go through the course as well.
So what I want you to do right now is to pause the video and add in javascript using the script tags
and pass yourself a message you can pass your name and show your name into the alert message and see
it pop up as you refreshed your page.
So once you've completed that then I'm going to show you even more.
Another way to add javascript and this is actually going to be one of the most common ways to add javascript
and just one other note before I show you the last way is that sometimes you're going to see where the
script tag actually has its own attribute and it's identified as something like application Javascript.
And basically what this does is this is the mean type.
So this helps the Internet Explorer or the internet browser understand what type of what type of script
it should be expecting between the script tags and I know that I did just say Internet Explorer and
that's because this is for older browsers and some browsers that aren't compatible with the new just
script tags they do need that older type attribute added into them.
And most of the time this always reverts back to Internet Explorer.
So if you're looking to be backwards compatible you do need to add in the type.
Although most of the modern applications they're not going to include the type if you're just looking
at more modern browsers.
But for backwards compatibility always a good idea to throw that in.
So the last type of script or last way that we wanted to access javascript is as an external file and
this is actually probably the most common way to do this.
And this is probably one of the best ways to do that.
And the reason being so I'm going to comment this one out so we don't have too many that are firing
off.
And this one has gone.
Initially it's going to look the same but instead of having our tags between the script tags we're going
to specify a source within the attribute and then here is where we specify the path to our javascript
file.
And this is also I could bring in javascript libraries like Querrey.
And so on.
So I'm going to just create a file called script g s and I'm going to link it in the script tags.
And basically now when the page loads actually going to be looking for a script just ask because it's
going to try to render out any of the content located within scripture as.
So now we need to create script G-S create a brand new file.
And here I can add an alert.
And this time I'm going to say hello three and we'll just see this and we call this script.
G.
S. so always make sure that your paths are correct.
So this one is on the same same directory as my index file so that's where I'm just linking to it.
But if you've got it in a folder or if you've got an external Web site then make sure that you're taking
care of the linking properly to access that file.
So now we can go back to index and we see that what's going to happen is the browser is going to render
out all this code is going to hit this on clicks it's going to register this click event so that's going
to be ready to go.
It's going to read the script.
J.
So it's going to fire off all of that code and notice that I don't have to wrap it within the script
tags because this is a G-S file meaning it's a javascript file and it's understood that it's a javascript
smile and I am linking to it from the script tags as well.
So basically that's a link.
And over here I've commented out the alerts so I'm not going to get that hello to firing off.
And now let's go back out into a browser refresh the page and we're going to see Halo 3 is firing off.
So there's a lot of reasons for using external files.
And the main one is that they're reusable that you can link to the same G-S file from one each time
a file or a thousand or 10000 It doesn't matter.
You can link to it from multiple ways.
And this really provides a lot of flexibility in your application because you can open this up and you
can make a change and have it reflect across your entire web site or any of the pages that are actually
linking to this.
This J.S. file and other benefit is that you'll be able to separate out your javascript from your aged
him.
And that's why I said that normally you don't see a lot of this anymore because we're trying to separate
out writing scripts in the H-2 him as much as possible.
And if we can bring this out and include it into an external script file then if we do need to add in
our javascript we know exactly where to go and where to look for it.
Otherwise it does get a little bit complex because we have to sift through a whole bunch of H-2 mail.
And in this case there's not a lot here.
But in some cases you will run into a lot of HMO and it does become difficult to really sift through
it and make good use of it.
So those are the three ways that you can add javascript into your page and they all have their own benefits.
And normally if you're writing a lot of script or if you're really using your javascript keep in an
external script file.
If you do have some javascript if you're doing a one page site or if you've got some simple code that's
just reflective on each team that you have on the one page then you can add it in as a script file where
between the script tags.
This will make it look a little bit faster because it's going to have less server requests than loading
and other external file.
And then lastly if you have no other choice you can add it in as a click event or an attribute within
that element.
So what I want you to do now is to open up your editor and use that same alert function that we use
within this lesson and try them for yourself.
So I didn't as an attribute out it in as a script within your file within your age to Metafile.
And then lastly I added in as a separate J.S. file and linked to it within your H-2 him out try it out
and Pastor So some interesting messages.
And in the next lesson we're going to be jumping into dev tools and then you show you a little bit more
about how we can use dev tools within our development process.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.